{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f14\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Book Antiqua;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f5\lang3081 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 \sbasedon0\snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive\super \sbasedon10 
footnote reference;}{\s17{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\b\f5\fs28\lang3081 \sbasedon19\snext17 Menu Item;}{\s18 \b\f14\fs36\cf2\lang3081 \sbasedon0\snext18 Menu Heading;}{\s19{\*\pn \pnlvl11
\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\b\f5\fs28\lang3081 \sbasedon0\snext19 Style1;}}{\info{\title F3J Scoring Program}{\author AFP}{\operator Australian Federal Police}{\creatim\yr1996\mo12\dy30\hr11\min5}{\revtim\yr1997\mo6\dy5\hr8\min49}
{\printim\yr1997\mo1\dy12\hr19\min34}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49203}}\paperw11906\paperh16838 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \f5\lang3081 {\fs36 
\par }{\cs16\f14\fs52\cf5\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}contents}}{\f14\fs52\cf5 F3J Scoring Program
\par }\pard {\f14\fs52\cf5 
\par }\pard \qc {\f14\fs52\cf5 Release 2.6
\par 2 June 1997}{\fs36 
\par }\pard 
\par \pard\plain \s18 \b\f14\fs36\cf2\lang3081 {\fs52 Contents
\par }\pard\plain \f5\lang3081 {\b\uldb Overview }{\b\v overview
\par }{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s18 \b\f14\fs36\cf2\lang3081 Menu Items
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \fi-283\li283{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\lang3081 {\b\uldb File }{\b\v menu_file}{\fs28 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\b\uldb Competition }{\b\v menu_comp}{\fs28 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\b\uldb View}{\fs28 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\b\uldb Scores}{\b\v menu_scores}{\fs28 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\b\uldb DataBase}{\fs28 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\b\uldb Tools}{\fs28 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\b\uldb Help}{\fs28 
\par }\pard {\fs28 
\par Forms Help
\par }{\fs36 \page }{\cs16\fs36\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}overview}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}overview}}{\fs36 F3J Scoring Program
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\fs36 Release 2.6
\par 2 June 1997
\par }\pard 
\par 
\par Disclaimer & Copyright 
\par  
\par This program is Copyright (C) 1996 by Stephen Gloor, 
\par All Rights Reserved. 
\par  
\par They are provided as shareware with the following limitations: 
\par  
\par This program is alpha-code and is not to be resold or distributed for sale with other programs which are for sale.  There is no warranty or claim of fitness or reliability. The programs are distributed AS IS, and  the author,  shall not be held liable for
 any loss of data, down time, loss of revenue or any other direct or indirect damage or claims caused by this program. 
\par 
\par Brief Operating Instructions
\par 
\par The program is based around a contest.  The data file is called DATA.MDB and is selected by default. 
\par 
\par The program now allows teams.  It also scores Australian 8-11 Thermal Duration contests
\par 
\par The initial screen has a menu system and a display.  The menu is a follows
\par \pard\plain \s18 \b\f14\fs36\cf2\lang3081 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_file}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}menu_file}}Menu Option FILE
\par \pard\plain \f5\lang3081 {\b 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\b\f5\fs28\lang3081 {\fs24\uldb Open}{\v\fs24 menu_file_open}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}{\fs24\uldb Print Setup}{\v\fs24 menu_file_setup }
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}{\fs24\uldb Print}{\v\fs24 menu_file_print}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}{\fs24\uldb Exit}{\v\fs24 menu_file_exit}
\par \pard\plain \f5\lang3081 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_file_open}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}file_open}}Menu Item \tab \tab File
\par Selection \tab \tab Open
\par 
\par This is the menu item to open a data file other that the default
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_file_printsetup}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}file_printsetup}}Menu Item \tab File
\par Selection \tab Print Setup
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par 
\par This brings up the standard windows prompt dialogue box
\par \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_file_print}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}file_print}}Menu Item \tab File
\par Selection \tab Print
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par 
\par \pard Brings up the {\b\uldb Print Selection Screen}.  Using the radio buttons select the type of report.  Then push the {\b\uldb PRINT REPORT} button.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_file_exit}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}file_exit}}Menu Item \tab File
\par Selection \tab Exit
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Either this or the exit button on the bottom of the screen will exit the program.  All data is saved when it is entered
\par \pard\plain \s18 \b\f14\fs36\cf2\lang3081 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_comp}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}menu_comp}}Menu Option\tab COMPETITION
\par \pard\plain \fi-2160\li2160 \f5\lang3081 {\b\fs32 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}\pard\plain \s17{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\b\f5\fs28\lang3081 {\fs24\uldb New Competiton }{\v\fs24 menu_comp_new}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}{\fs24\uldb Select Competition }{\v\fs24 menu_comp_open}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\lang3081 \'b7\tab}{\fs24\uldb Enter Competitors }{\v\fs24 menu_comp_pilotentry}{\fs24 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\fs24\uldb Set Up Teams }{\v\fs24 menu_comp_teamsetup}{\fs24 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\fs24\uldb Manage Freqs }{\v\fs24 menu_comp_managefreqs}{\fs24 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\fs24\uldb Set Up Rounds }{\v\fs24 menu_comp_roundsetup}{\fs24 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\fs24\uldb Move Pilot}{\fs24 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\fs28\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\fs24\uldb Leader Board}{\v\fs24 menu_comp_leaderboard}
\par \pard\plain \fi-2160\li2160 \f5\lang3081 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_comp_new}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_new}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab New Competition
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Brings up the form {\b\uldb Competition Entry Form}{\b\v form_comp_newcontest}
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_comp_open}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_open}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Open Competition
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Brings up the form {\b\uldb Contest Select Form}{\b\v form_comp_selectcontest}
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_comp_pilotentry}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_pilotentry}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Enter Competitors
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Selects the {\b\uldb Competitor Entry Screen}{\b\v form_comp_pilotentry}{\i 
\par }\pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_comp_teamsetup}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_teamsetup}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Set Up Teams
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard \fi-2835\li2835 
\par \pard Selects the {\b\uldb Set Up Teams Form}{\b\v form_comp_teamsetup}
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_comp_managefreqs}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_managefreqs}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Manage Frequencies
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Selects the {\b\uldb Manage Frequencies Form}{\b\v form_comp_managefreqs}
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_comp_roundsetup}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_roundsetup}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Setup Rounds
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Selects the {\b\uldb Set Up Rounds Form}{\b\v form_comp_roundsetup}
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_comp_leaderboard}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_leaderboard}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Leader Board
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Leader Board\tab As the contest progresses you can display the current state of the contest at any time.  It will display in total score order the current results.
\par \pard\plain \s18 \b\f14\fs36\cf2\lang3081 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_scores}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}menu_score}}Menu Option   SCORES
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\lang3081 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \fi-283\li283{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\lang3081 {\b\uldb Enter Slot Flight Times}{\b\v menu_score_enter}{\b 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f1\lang3081 \'b7\tab}}{\b\uldb View Scores}{\b\v menu_scores_view}{\b 
\par }\pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_score_enter}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}score_enter}} Menu Item \tab Scores
\par Selection \tab Enter Slot Flight Times
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par This brings up the form {\b\uldb Enter Flight Times}{\b\v form_scores_enter}.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}menu_scores_view}} Menu Item \tab Scores
\par Selection \tab View
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par This is a table that shows the scores for the selected round and slot.  The round and slot can be selected with the arrow inc and dec buttons beside the numbers.
\par \pard \fi-2835\li2835 \page {\b Menu Option   DATABASE
\par \page }Maintenance{\b \tab }This menu option displays a form that allows you to maintain the database.
\par \page DataBase Maintenance Form\tab This form can be selected with no contest selected.  On the right hand side is the {\caps competitors maintenance screen}.  On the RHS is the {\caps contest maintenance screen}.
\par \page Competitors Maintenance Screen\tab \tab 
Selecting a displayed pilot will allow you to 1.  Change the pilots details  2.  DELETE Pilot - Deleting a pilot moves the pilot to a non-current list.  This is important because if you delete a pilot completely from the database you could affect the outc
ome of a previously stored contest.  This option simply removes the pilot from the current list so that it is not cluttered up with pilots who no longer fly.  3. ADD NEW PILOT  - This option allows you to pre-enter pilots into the database without having 
a 
contest selected so that they can be entered into a contest at a later date.  4.PURGE A PILOT FROM DATABASE - If you are sure that the pilot does not need to be in the database then you can PURGE the database.  This removes all references in all contests 
for this pilot.  You lose all scores in all contests for this pilot.   The Radio Buttons under the screen allow you to change the screen to show  current pilots or pilots that have been \lquote deleted\rquote .{\b 
\par }\page Contest Maintenance Screen\tab This screen allows you to maintain contests.  The current contest is denoted by **.  You can change the contest parameters and delete a contest using this screen.
\par {\b \page }Search Database{\b \tab }This menu option shows a search screen that allow you to search the database for one of the displayed parameters or a whole name.{\b 
\par \page 
\par Menu Option TOOLS}
\par \page Reset Contest\tab This enables you to redraw a contest.  If a round/slot allocation is done for a contest then it can not be re-done until it is reset.  Selecting this option will erase any scores for the contest an r
eset the contest so that it can the menu selection SET UP ROUNDS will work again.
\par \page Set Current Contest Complete\tab 
Sets the contest complete which does 3 things.  1.  Adds up the final scores for the pilots, dropping the lowest score if more that 5 rounds are flown.    2.  Puts the place the pilot acheived in the database  3.  Locks the c
ontest so that no more scores can be put in.    Note: If for any reason the contest does not run the full course of the number of rounds entered when the contest was entered then you can set the contest complete at any stage by selecting this menu option.

\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}form_comp_pilotcontest}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_pilotcontest}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Enter Competitiors
\par Form\tab Enter Competitors into Contest
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par In the left box is the list of pilots in the database.  Simply select and existing pilot and push the ADD button.  The pilot will appear in the contest box.  If the pilot is not in the Contest then push the ADD PILOT TO DATABASE.  A 
Form will appear so that a new pilot\rquote 
s details can be entered.  Once the details have been entered then push DONE and the Pilot in Database Box will have the new pilots details displayed.  You can enter pilots up until you set up rounds after this you hav
e to reset the contest to enter more pilots.{\b\i (NOTE1) The frequency fields are the frequency in Mhz.  Any other format will be rejected.}
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}form_comp_newcontest}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_newcontest}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab New Competition
\par Form\tab New Competition Entry Form
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par This is a form to enter a new competition into the database.  This is the first step in creating a new contest.  Supply a name and start/finish date.  The contest type is selected with the radio buttons. Enter the number of rounds that this contest will h
ave(default is 5) When the contest is entered correctly it is automatically the current contest.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}form_comp_selectcontest}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_selectcontest}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Open Competition
\par Form\tab Select Existing Contest 
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par This is a selection screen for competitions that exist in the database.  Using the NEXT button select the competition that you would like to work on and then push the SELECT button.  This makes this contest the current contest.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}form_comp_teamsetup}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_teamsetup}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Set Up Teams
\par Form\tab Team Set Up Form
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par This is a screen to set up teams in the competition.  
\par 
\par Simply select the pilot in the comp from the left and then push ADD.  The pilot will then appear in the right box.  The team number is selected by pushing the scroll buttons next to the number.  Changing this will change the team selected   If you want to
 remove a pilot from a team then select the correct team and then the correct pilot.  Push the REMOVE button.  The pilot will disappear from the right screen and re-appear in the left screen which is the pool of unallocated pilots.  
\par 
\par A tip here is to ensure that team members are on the same frequency so that the round/slot allocation is easier.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}form_comp_managefreqs}} {\cs16\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_managefreqs}}Menu Item \tab Competition
\par Selection \tab Manage Frequencies
\par Form\tab Frequency Management Form
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Select this before you select round setup.  It gives you an idea of the number of people on the frequencies used in the contest.  It allows you to see if there is a particul
ar frequency that has too many pilots.  If there is a freq that is heavily used then it can be selected to move pilots off onto their alternate frequencies.\tab Select the problem frequency push the button marked \ldblquote Select pilots on this Freq
\rdblquote  and all pilots on
 this frequency in this contest are displayed.  Select a pilot and push change frequency.  This will cause the freq used for this pilot to change to the alternate.  If a new frequency is entered here it will change the pilots database entry.
\par \pard\plain \s18 \b\f14\fs36\cf2\lang3081 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}form_comp_roundsetup}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}comp_roundsetup}}Set Up Rounds
\par \pard\plain \f5\lang3081 
\par Sets up rounds for the current contest. If the contest already has the rounds set up then the rounds cannot be set up again until the contest has been reset (see {\b\uldb Reset Current Contest}) .   
\par 
\par The initial screen is a blank display screen with 4 Command buttons .
\par \pard \li720 
\par {\b\uldb 1\tab Allocate Slots}{\b\v button_roundsetup_allocate}
\par {\b\uldb 2\tab Change Allocation}{\b\v button_roundsetup_change}
\par {\b\uldb 3\tab Dont Accept Allocation}{\b\v button_roundsetup_noallocate}
\par {\b\uldb 4\tab Accept Allocation}{\b\v button_roundsetup_acceptallocate}
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}button_roundsetup_allocate}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}button_allocate}}Form \tab Set Up Rounds
\par Button \tab Allocate
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par This button starts the allocate process.  The progress of the allocation is displayed by the scroll bar along the top.  The resulting round/slots are displayed in the display screen. Check here to see if the number of pilots in each slot is even and there
 are sufficient  pilots in each slot.   If the draw looks even then accept the draw by pressing the \ldblquote Accept Allocation and Set up Scores in Database\rdblquote 
 and all the score entries will be created and this contest will be set up.   If a screen comes up that says \ldblquote Cannot do allocation .....\rdblquote  just press the set up rounds button again.  It sometimes takes 2 or 3 goes to get a successfu
l allocation.  If it cannot allocate after 2-3 goes you will have to modify the team allocation or shift some pilots of a particular frequency.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}button_roundsetup_change}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}button_change}}Form \tab Set Up Rounds
\par Button \tab Change Allocation
\par \pard _____________________________________________________________
\par 
\par If the allocation the computer comes up with is not quite right yet not a total loss you can modify the draw manually.  Pressing this button will bring up the {\b\uldb Change Allocations Form}{\b\v form_roundsetup_changeallocation}{\b\uldb 
\par }\pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}form_roundsetup_changeallocation}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}form_changeallocation}}Form \tab Round Setup
\par Selection\tab Change Allocations
\par \pard _____________________________________________________________
\par 
\par This form allows you to chop and change manually the computer dr
aw.  Sometimes the computer will make a slot with only 2 pilots in it or something.  Down the left hand side is a box that shows the number of pilots in each slot for each round.  Using the Inc and Dec arrows beside each round and slot number you can sele
ct the round and slot with too few pilots.  By pressing the button {\b\uldb Remove Pilot From Slot}
 you can take the pilot out of the slot.  Then by using the Inc and Dec arrow by the slot number (Notice that the Round arrow is greyed out) you can select the slot tha
t you want this pilot to go into.  The computer will check to see if there is a freq conflict when you push the button {\b\uldb Add Pilot To Slot}
 and will not let you allocate the pilot if there is.  If there is a Team conflict the you will be given the option to allocate the pilot.  If you remove all pilots from the last slot in every round the computer will remove this slot from all rounds.  {
\i This only applies to the last slot. }{\b\i 
\par }\pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}button_roundsetup_noallocate}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}button_noallocate}}Form \tab Set Up Rounds
\par Button \tab Don\rquote t Accept Allocation
\par \pard _____________________________________________________________
\par 
\par This button clears the display and reset the matrix.  Up until you set up the contest by pushing the {\b\uldb Accept Allocation button }{\b\v button_roundsetup_accept }allocate the draw resides in memory in a matrix and can be changed at any time.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}button_roundsetup_acceptallocate}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super $}button_acceptallocate}}Form \tab Set Up Rounds
\par Button \tab Accept Allocation
\par \pard _____________________________________________________________
\par 
\par Pressing this button as previously described commits the contest draw to the database.  After this point the allocations can only be changed by resetting the contest.  However a pilot can be moved from slot to slot by selecting {\b\uldb Move Pilot}
 in the Competition menu\page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}form_scores_enter}}Menu Item \tab \tab Scores
\par Selection \tab \tab Enter Scores for Slot
\par Form\tab \tab \tab Enter Slot Flight Times
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par Select the round and slot that you wish to score and the pilots in this slot will be displayed.  When the flight details for a pilot have been entered push {\b\uldb Enter Scores For Pilot}{\b\v button_scores_enterscores}
 button and the score will be recorded in the database.  The form will then automatically advance to the next pilot. You can navigate between pilots using the {\b\uldb NEXT} and {\b\uldb PREV}{\uldb  }
keys.  If you make a mistake simply navigate to the error and re-enter.  This will overwrite the previous entry. The penalties are calculated automatically from the entered flight time.  ie if you enter 10 mins 30sec then a penalty of 60 points is
 taken from the score.  It is 60 because the penalty is 30 points and also points stop being recorded at 10:00.  This \ldblquote penalty\rdblquote 
 of 60 points will give the correct raw score.  If however a pilot has a relaunch,makes 7mins 40sec and overflies the slot by 29
 sec.  If you just enter 7:40 then normally no penalty will be added.  In these cases the penalty will have to be calculated manually and entered in the additional penalties field.  If a entry is present in this field then the program will add the entry t
o the total penalties. The landing score is auto calculated with the distance from the spot being entered.  After the last pilot\rquote s score has been entered push the {\b\uldb SCORE SLOT}{\b\v button_scores_scoreslot}
 button.  This will calculate the normalised score for the pilots in the slot.  This can be done at any time and you can leave it for later by pressing the {\b\uldb NO CALCULATE}{\b\v button_scores_noscoreslot}
 button.  You can rescore any slot at any time simply be entering the new flight times and then re-scoring.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}button_scores_enterscores}}Form \tab Enter Scores For Slot
\par Button \tab Enter Scores For Pilot
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par This button caused the entered scores to be recorded in the database.  Previous entries, if any, will be overwritten.  The slot is not scored at this point
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}button_scores_scoreslot}}Form \tab Enter Scores For Slot
\par Button \tab Score Slot
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par After this button is pressed the slot is scored based on the entered scores.  Penalties are taken into account and the slot is scored with the highest raw score receiving 1000 points.
\par \pard \fi-2160\li2160 \page {\cs16\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15 \f5\fs20\lang3081 {\cs16\super #}button_scores_noscoreslot}}Form \tab Enter Scores For Slot
\par Button \tab Enter Scores No Calculate
\par _____________________________________________________________
\par \pard 
\par This can be used if you wish to enter a few scores but not score the slot.  It also can be used a back-out button.
\par \page 
\par }